# Digital Identity Services Trust Framework Rules 2024
Pursuant to section 18 of the Digital Identity Services Trust Framework Act 2023, on the
recommendation of the Trust Framework Board and after consultation in accordance with
section 21 of that Act, the Minister for Digitising Government makes the following rules. 

## Part 1: Preliminary
***
### 1 Title
These rules are the Digital Identity Services Trust Framework Rules 2024.
### 2 Commencement
These rules come into force on 8 November 2024.
### 3 Application
These rules apply to Trust Framework providers and the accredited services they
provide.
### 4 Interpretation
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires – accredited digital identity
service or accredited service has the same meaning as in section 5 of the Digital
Identity Services Trust Framework Act 2023.

**attribute** means a piece of information that describes something about an Entity
(for example, an individual’s name, address and whether they are resident in a
particular place are all attributes about the individual).

**agent** means an individual who initiates a transaction on behalf of another
individual or organisation through an established authority.
authentication means the process for establishing that an authenticator is
genuine or as represented.

**authentication assurance** means robustness of the process to ensure an
authenticator remains solely in control of its holder.

**authenticator** means information or another thing, for example a password, a
personal identification number, or a fingerprint, that—
<ol type="a"><li>is known to, or possessed or controlled by, a person; and</li>
<li>is bound or otherwise linked to the person during an interaction with a
service; and</li>
<li>can be used by the person during subsequent interactions with the
service to prove that they are the same person.</li>
</ol>

**authentication service** means a digital identity service that enables a person to
use an authenticator to access a service, for example a log-in service or a 2–
factor authentication service.

**bind** in relation to personal or organisational information, means to link securely
to the correct individual or organisation by means of 1 or more checks that the
information relates to that particular individual or organisation.

**binding assurance** means robustness of the process to bind a person or
organisation to their information and to an authenticator or both to their
information and to an authenticator.

**binding service** means a digital identity service that binds personal or
organisational information.

**CERT NZ** means the New Zealand Computer Emergency Response Team.

**credential** means a digital record (for example a digital vaccination record)
that—
<ol type="a">
<li>combines an authenticator and bound personal or organisational
information; and</li>
<li>a relying party or another person can rely on without verifying the
information.</li>
</ol>

**credential service** means a digital identity service that creates a reusable
credential.

**derived value** or **derived assertion** or **derived predicate** means a value deduced
or inferred from information in a credential.

**digital identity service** has the meaning given in section 10 of Digital Identity
Services Trust Framework Act 2023.

**Digital Identity Services Trust Framework** or the **Trust Framework** means the
legal framework established by the Digital Identity Services Trust Framework Act
2023 to regulate the provision of digital identity services for transactions
between individuals and organisations.

**digital identity system** means an interconnected system for the exchange and
verification of entities’ attributes, involving:
<ol type="a">
<li>Trust Framework providers; and</li>
<li>users; and</li>
<li>relying parties.</li>
</ol>

**entity** means something that has separate and distinct existence and that can be
identified in a particular context, for example:
<ol type="a">
<li>an individual; or</li>
<li>an organisation.</li>
</ol>

...

## Part 2: Service rules
***
### 5 Information service
1. A Trust Framework provider of an information service must provide attributes
with a level of information assurance established in accordance with the
Information Assurance Standard under the Identification Standards

### 6 Binding service
1. A Trust Framework provider of a binding service must undertake entity binding in
accordance with the Binding Assurance Standard under the Identification
Standards.